the ear piercing sound of sirens brings
your relaxing saturday afternoon to a
screeching halt
you jump out of the chair and run to the
window the sky is covered in black
clouds
all the way down to the horizon the
trees are nearly bent over flat from the
gale
force winds together with the rain golf
ball sized hail crashes into the ground
on rooftops on parked cars it sounds
like a stampede
right over your head car alarms are
going off everywhere just then
crack huge bolts of lightning flash
across the black sky
then the monstrous grumble of thunder
your heart jumps in your throat
as you peer through the window at the
sudden chaos outside
you're filled with a primal fear of the
power
of nature you snap back to reality
the sirens gotta get to the basement you
start to turn away from the window
and that's when you see it a massive
tornado ripping along the city street
it's throwing entire motorcycles
refrigerators
and even trees like baseballs the roof
of that building
starts peeling off like a band-aid the
twister even lifts cars and pieces of
asphalt as if they're made of feathers
it seems this tornado will flatten your
city within an
hour tops you finally snap out of your
hypnosis
and run to the basement the sound of the
city being ripped apart
terrifies you as you hunker down below
as low as you can
but after about 20 minutes everything is
suddenly
silent you head out to see the clouds
have disappeared
and the sun's rays illuminate the street
luckily
your house was spared but your modern
city now
looks more like ancient ruins stop
tornadoes never come into cities
right uh yeah they do
this monster doesn't care where it goes
and what it eats along the way
while we're at it you can forget about
the myth that tornadoes will magically
stop when they meet rivers
lakes or mountains they just keep on
going
but about that no twisters in the city
thing
about 1 000 tornadoes hit the us each
year
that's 75 of all the tornadoes in the
world
most of these monsters occur in a strip
okay
more like a long blob running up and
down through the middle of the country
it's an
area aptly dubbed tornado alley a
perfect spot for these things to form
you get cold dry air coming down from
canada
meeting warm humid air traveling north
from the gulf of mexico
warm air is less dense than cold air so
it rises
and creates a strong updraft water
droplets
surround it to create the funnel cloud
there you go
recipe for a tornado now if you closed
your eyes
spun around and put your finger on a map
of the u.s
the chances of your finger landing on a
major city are pretty slim
if you gathered all the cities in the
whole country into one area
it would only be three percent of the
us's entire land
just like your finger the likelihood of
a tornado striking in the city
is much smaller than landing in a rural
area
when it comes down to it tornadoes can
touch down in big cities
they just hardly ever do thanks to sheer
chance
another surprising myth you always see a
tornado coming because
duh funnel cloud right ahead not true
the approaching funnel can be completely
camouflaged in a wall
of rain you might finally see it when
it's right on top of you
in this case you better trust your
hearing
first tornado warning sirens go off if
you're in a place that has them
second listen for a loud rumble that
sounds like a train coming
that's a sure sign this beast is
somewhere nearby
many people immediately start heading
for shelter when they see
green clouds in the sky because we all
believe
it's the number one sign of a tornado
coming don't buy it
yes a green sky is a sign of a severe
thunderstorm that's powerful enough to
produce tornadoes
but it's not a guarantee like many
people see it
while we're at it you know how movies
show the ground ripping apart during
earthquakes
the gaping hole that swallows cars
houses entire cities
not a shred of truth to this a crack may
appear in the ground with major
earthquakes
but it rarely exceeds a couple feet wide
one of the most overspread myths out
there is that lightning will never
strike the same place twice
tell that to the empire state building
it gets hit by bolts of lightning
at least 25 times a year pretty sure
nobody's picking the building up
and moving it to different locations yes
lightning likes really tall things
and it's not shy to keep coming back as
for that old warning about your cell
phone or jewelry attracting lightning
busted there hasn't been any scientific
support for the idea that personal
objects with metal in them attract
lightning
you still shouldn't be out and about
during a storm though
cell phone in hand or not now if you're
looking for a tsunami
and only focused on giant walls of water
you might never see one
even if it's right in front of you
tsunamis aren't always
massive tidal waves crashing into the
shore more often than not
they look like the tide is rising
extremely rapidly
receding and rising again until it over
spills
into the city not that tsunamis never
form walls of water
it's just not as common picture earth
are you imagining a perfect ball well to
resemble the truth more
squash the poles down a little there now
you have a realistic earth
scientists call the earth an irregular
sphere
or ellipsoid in fancy terms the planet
rotates on its axis
causing the equator to bulge out a bit
just like what happens when you spin
fast on a merry-go-round
you feel pulled out and away from the
center
what's the highest point on earth
everest of course
but if we go from the point furthest
away from the center of the earth
the crown goes to mount chimborazo in
the andes
its peak is actually 6 800 feet closer
to space
than the summit of everest that's
because chimborazo
sits near the equator where the planet's
bulge is greatest
the blue whale weighs as much as 30
elephants makes
sounds louder than a jet and eats four
tons of food every day
it's the largest living creature this
planet has ever
seen only not technically
head to the malheur national forest in
oregon home to a creature
that weighs as much as 20 blue whales
the honey mushroom is a humongous fungus
colony
united into a common system the giant
covers an area of 1500 football fields
and it's thousands of years old ask
anyone to draw the sun
and they'll draw a happy yellow circle
but if you look at our star from the
moon
or the international space station
you'll see that it's actually
white from earth the sun looks yellow or
red
thanks to the atmosphere acting like a
filter
most people think time is constant and
moves at the same speed no matter where
you are
but the speed of time depends on how
close the watch is to earth
the weaker the gravity the faster time
passes
so the person living in the apartment
above you is aging faster than you
now it's only 90 billionths of a second
faster per one foot higher
so don't expect to notice a difference
if you decide to move to the first floor
the ground under your feet feels pretty
solid and whole
but in reality the earth's crust is all
broken up into plates
surfing on oceans of liquid rock called
magma
you don't feel it but the ground under
you is moving
a little over half an inch per year
that's about the same rate your toenails
grow
largest desert in the world easy the
sahara
noop it's antarctica which is almost two
times bigger than the sahara
a desert isn't just a scorching sandy
place where it doesn't rain
it's a place with very little
precipitation so that includes snow
too in some parts of antarctica it
hasn't rained or snowed
for millions of years in other parts
snow does fall though rarely point is
there's a myth that it doesn't snow in
extreme cold
antarctica is the coldest place on earth
and
it snows there there is some truth to
this old saying
cold is drier it doesn't retain moisture
as well
you need moisture to produce raindrops
and snowflakes
that's why there are fewer chances for
snowfall when temperatures drop so low